It’s 8:23 a.m on Saturday, February 26, the year of our lord 2022, and I am beginning a thirty-day fast. I heard that year of our lord thing in a Stanley Kubrick movie at some point in time. I anticipate the next 29 days, 23 hours, and some odd minutes will be a bit Kubrickesque. I hate cute neologisms like that one I just wrote there. And I especially hate them when they’re at the expense of the greatest filmmaker of all time.

I think a better use of this writing space will be to explain to you why I am fasting, how I am doing it, and the things I am doing while I am doing it. The it is fasting.

Everyone says that I look fine and that I don’t look like I weigh 270 pounds. An attractive female I met at the local coffee shop Archetype said I look like every salesman she’s ever seen at Duluth Trading Company. There have been compliments on my dad bod. Nobody has ever said anything negative or looked away in disgust. There have been no expressions of anything, positive or negative, that would suggest to me that I have a problem with my weight. 

In fact, going off of the subjective expressions and non-expressions of others, there is no evidence to suggest that I am morbidly obese. But as my late, great shipmate Donald Rumsfeld once said: “absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.”  I am morbidly obese. Rummy would have called me a fat ass.

I wear Sanuk and Vans slip ons because it hurts to tie my shoes. Wiping my ass is a workout and requires a yoga pose that I call the Flying C, way too much toilet paper, and baby wipes I wad up and mash into my crack to ensure I get everything. The Flying G is for deodorant. I waddle instead of walking, and while I’m waddling, Little Phil recedes into an anatomically anomalous pouch of flesh which can only be described as a fupa. I hate cute little neologisms like the one I just wrote there. And I especially hate them when they come at my expense.

A friend posed the argument to me that my BMI is naturally high because I lift heavy weights, have a lot of muscle mass, and since muscle weighs more than fat, I shouldn’t be worried. That was six years ago when I weighed 200 lbs. 

I’m 5’8” tall. I weigh 270 lbs. My BMI exceeds 40. That is the cutoff for morbid obesity. Morbid means you can die from it.

I’m treating this like a deadly medical condition. My self-prescribed intervention is a thirty-day fast. I will consume only lemon water, unsweetened coffee, and water with minerals for the next thirty days. As a disabled combat veteran, I feel duty-bound to address this discrepancy in my physical condition.

Day One, February 26, 2022

My last calories prior to my fast were consumed at 7:15 a.m. They were in the form of a 32 oz. strawberry, mango, chia seed, wheatgrass, honey, and Greek yogurt smoothie. While I was slurping that thing down, I ordered enough Volcano Lemon Burst Organic lemon juice and Keto Drops for the next thirty days from Whole Foods and had it delivered. The Keto Drops are for mineral and electrolyte balance, and I will not need those until day three. I have plenty of coffee, acetaminophen, and cool, clean, pure whatever-comes-out-of-the-tap water.

Research has informed me that bed rest, reading, sleeping, watching movies, light walking, and – ta-da – journaling are the best activities to fill the day with while fasting. I’ll sprinkle in some light coding and design work, but I plan on reading some of the books that I’ve been putting off. Either way, my priority is maintaining my fast for the next thirty days. Everything I do or choose not to do in that time is focused on that. The time is 9:32 a.m.

Day Two, February 27, 2022

It is 12:57 p.m., and I woke up at 12:30 with a heart rate of 52 bpm. I have a naturally low heart rate which analyses by every doctor I’ve encountered in my adult life has attributed to my background in middle distance running and the requisite training for that activity. However, I’ll continue to report that data point because it is a number, and numbers and data are generally good.  We shall see.

After arising from my truly amazing snooze, which I undertook at about 3 a.m., I grabbed some cold espresso to wash down my Lexapro, Metoprolol, Prilosec, multivitamin, and Levothyroxine. That last pill is designed to be taken on an empty stomach, which is a condition that I am accommodating quite well.

It’s currently only been about 30 hours since my last calorie intake. According to my relevant Google research, I found that vivid, lucid dreams were a byproduct of fasting. With that in mind, I can report that I was treated to the most intensely phantasmagoric, Christopher Nolanesque series of dreams as I slept last night. My Lexapro also contributes to the lucidity and vividness of my R.E.M. reveries in general, but this one was very specific and involved some incredibly personal details.  If this continues to be a regular feature of my experience, I may begin to include the details of my dreams to add color to these reports.

Day Three, February 28, 2022

Here we are, the last day of February. The third day of my semi-adventurous toe dip into long-haul water fasting. I woke up at about 9 a.m., took my medications, drank about 500 ml of water, drank a few swigs of espresso-laced cold brew coffee, and read for a little while with reports from Ukraine spilling into the background.

As I write this, it has been sixty hours since my last caloric intake. I went for a three-mile walk today, taking advantage of the unseasonably good weather. Naturally, I felt a little weak and it was slow going. According to my Apple Watch, I completed 3.22 miles at 20:30 mph, burned 302 calories, and had an average heart rate of 86 bpm. My route took me past one of my favorite restaurants in town – Pizza King. The delicious smell almost caused my knees to buckle. I drank a complete liter of water after my walk and had a few swigs of my coffee concoction.

I feel and look nervous. In addition to writing these brief summaries, I’m recording YouTube video testimonials to document my experience. And in the three videos I’ve recorded so far, I look like I’m trying to cover up my nervousness and jitteriness with humor, wit, and needless tangential explanations of irrelevant details. That’s probably great for YouTube. However, It’s good that I work from home and do not conduct business in this condition.

Hunger pangs continue, however, they are subsiding. I look forward to the ketogenic fat burn which, according to research, usually begins at around the 72-hour mark of a water fast.

Day Four, March 01, 2022

Right up there with Ode on a Grecian Urn is one of my other favorite works of verse:

	Here I sit, all brokenhearted
	I tried to shit but only farted
	Then one day I took a chance
	And tried to fart but shit my pants

I first read that stanza on a bathroom wall at Grandma’s Restaurant in Eden Prairie, Minnesota when I was eleven years old. I’ll never forget it. But how does this timeless poem pertain to my experience on day four of my 30-day water fast?

It describes my caution when trying to push out a fart right now. This morning, upon waking from another delightful slumber filled with one or more lucid dreams, I had a massive, liquidy, tfplap-ploppflop-floppppflappity, poo. It felt like it was going to be a fart at half push, which required an expeditious, non-stop stroll to the bathroom where I subsequently evacuated the stool.  It’s a relevant observation because it had been 72 hours since my last calories.

Throughout the day my pee has been yellow clear, which means that I am sufficiently hydrated by the mineral-and-lemon-infused water that I am drinking throughout the day. My pulse is regular. My skin is normal.

I was extremely fatigued, which required no fewer than two naps. But my resolve has been buttressed today by the lack of hunger pangs which have been absent since the overnight period. 

Though I am unable to notice a difference in my physical appearance at this point in my fast, It feels like I am making progress. Research revealed to me that getting past the first 72 hours was the hardest part, and, though I do not anticipate smooth sailing for the next 26 days, I feel like I’m doing a good thing.
